Now let's talk about AWS Config.
So Config helps with auditing and recording the compliance
of your resources by recording the configuration
and their changes over time.
So any time we've been doing some manual changes
of the configuration in AWS, we did not have a list
of all the changes that happened,
but we can have this using Config.
Then this configuration data can be stored into Amazon S3,
to be later analyzed by Athena, or to be recovered.
The question that can be solved by using Config,
can be is there unrestricted SSH access
to my security groups?
Or do buckets have any public access?
Or has my ALB configuration changed over time?
All these things can be resolved by Config and Config rules.
Then you can receive alerts through SNS notifications
for any changes done onto your infrastructure,
and Config is a per-region service,
but you can create multiple Config configurations
and then aggregate all the results across all the accounts
and all the regions.
So let's have an example of how Config work.
So if you want to see the compliance of a resource
over time, this is for a security group,
you can see that it was noncompliant,
and then after making some changes,
it became compliant and green.
You can also view the configuration of a resource over time
to see how their configuration
of that security group has changed.
And finally, you can view who made these changes
to the resources based on CloudTrail
if you have enabled CloudTrail in your accounts.
So I am in the Config console, I'm going to get started,
and I need to choose the type of resources
that I want to record.
Just know that Config is not a free service,
so if you enable it, then you will have to pay.
For this, I will enable to record all the resources
in this region, including the global resources,
and it will create a bucket
in which all the configuration will be stored.
Then I can select a topic to send notifications
to for all the changes of the configurations.
I will disable this for now,
and it will create a Config service-linked role.
I'll click on next, then I can choose Config rules,
so these are rules to apply on my account.
For example, to check if SSH is open.
So the restricted-ssh is one rule,
you can have also public entry buckets.
So if you go to rds-instance-public-access-check,
for example this is an example, or if I type S3,
we can see s3-bucket-logging-enabled,
or s3-account-level-public-access-blocks.
So these are a bunch of rules in which they can be enabled
to check the compliance of our resources within our account.
For this example, and remember this is going to be paid,
I'm going to enable the restricted-ssh rule to show you
the compliance of my security groups.
I'll click on Next, and then as I can see,
I'm going to record the configuration of all the resources,
it's going to be put in the S3 bucket,
and it is going to apply this Config rule, restricted-ssh.
I'll click on Confirm,
and setting up Config can take a time,
so I will wait for Config to be done,
and to record everything in my account.
Okay, so I'm in Config, and I'm going to use the new console
to match your experience, and so in Config,
what I'm going to be able to see is the inventory
of all my resources in AWS.
As you can see, I have five security groups,
three subnet, one InternetGateway,
and so on you can read with me.
And it turns out, that as part of all my resources,
I have some resources that are not compliant.
So there's one rule that is not compliant,
and that is the restricted-ssh rule.
If I click on this, I can look at the rule detail,
and I can see the resources in scope,
and I can see that three out of five security groups
are not compliant.
So if I click on one of these security group,
I can look at the details of the security group,
and I can see the rule is applied,
and I can see that this rule is not compliant.
So this rule, what did it describe?
Well, it described the fact that there is unrestricted
SSH allowed onto my security group.
So what I can do, is that I can fix this rule.
So let's go into Resources and then I will find
my security group that is not compliant, so this one,
and we'll click on it,
and then I'm going to click on Resource Timeline.
So I can see my configuration timeline,
and I can see that my configuration was done
on the 2nd of June, and I can also look at
my compliance timeline, and I can see
that my security group right now, is not compliant.
So if I scroll down, I look at the rules,
and say, yes, this is not compliant,
and this is because we have a port opened
on SSH for everyone to use.
So what I can do is that I can fix this resource.
So for this I'm gonna go
into our security group configurations,
so this is this one I'm looking at,
and I'm gonna go into the EC2 consoles,
so I'll go into EC2, I will find the security group.
On the left-hand side I will go under security groups,
I will filter for the security group I'm looking for,
press Enter, here it is, and for the inbound rule
I can see that yes, SSH on port 22 is opened for everyone.
So what I'm going to do is that I will for example,
delete this rule temporarily, save the rule,
and then what I'll be waiting for is for my resource
to become compliant again.
So for this, I can either wait a little bit of time,
and this would show me the compliance,
or I can go a bit faster,
and then I can launch a rule and make sure it runs again.
So this rule that I created right here, I can do Action,
and Re-evaluate, and this is going to re-evaluate
all my noncompliant resources.
So let me pause a bit to wait for it to be done.
Now I'm going to refresh this page,
and what we are seeing now is that only two noncompliant
resources are done, so what I did, did fix one compliance.
If you go back to the Resource Timeline,
and I'm going to refresh this again,
let's see what happened.
We can see that now my resource is green,
and it's compliant, and if I click on Changes,
I can see that the fact that my Config rule
went from noncompliant to compliant.
If we want to look at the configuration changes
that are associated with this,
if I go to Configuration Timeline, I can see
that the resource has changed configuration on this.
So if I go to one change, I can click on it,
and I can see that this rule right here
that is described as-is, went to nothing,
which means it was deleted.
And if you look at CloudTrail,
we have the CloudTrail integration that said
that my root user did remove that security ingress rule.
And we can view that event in Details in CloudTrail.
So I hope that's helpful, I hope you now understand
the whole aspect of using Config to track
the resource configuration and their compliance over time,
and this is very helpful to ensure that all the resources
created by your employees within your company are compliant
with whatever you have decided for security rules.
So that's it, I hope that was helpful,
and I will see you in the next lecture.